# Documentation

## `public class Triangle`

Triangle. The main function takes 3 positive whole-number lengths to be typed in as command line arguments. The program responds with a description of the triangle, as follows:

<ul> <li><b>equilateral</b> - if all three sides have equal length <li><b>isosceles</b> - if two sides have equal length <li><b>right-angled</b> - if one angle is a right angle <li><b>scalene</b> - all sides different lengths, no right angles <li><b>impossible</b> - if the given side lengths do not form a triangle </ul> Area and perimeter of the triangle`are calculated, too.

 * **Author:** Mikko Rusama, SoberIT
 * **Version:** 26.8.2004

## `public Triangle(int s1, int s2, int s3)`

Constuctor (without error checking)

 * **Parameters:**
   * `s1` — length of the side1 as an integer.
   * `s2` — length of the side2 as an integer.
   * `s3` — length of the side3 as an integer.

## `public Triangle setSideLengths(int s1, int s2, int s3)`

Sets the lenghts of the sides of this triangle.

 * **Parameters:**
   * `s1` — length of the side1
   * `s2` — length of the side2
   * `s3` — length of the side3
 * **Returns:** a reference to this triangle.

## `public String getSideLengths()`

Gets the side lenghts.

 * **Returns:** a comma separated list of side lengths

## `public int getPerimeter()`

Gets the perimeter of the triangle.

 * **Returns:** -1 if input values are invalid, otherwise the perimeter.

## `public double getArea()`

Gets the area of the triangle.

 * **Returns:** area of the triangle, -1.0 if triangle is impossible.

## `public String classify()`

Classifies the triangle. Possible types, returned as a string, are: <ul> <li>equilateral - if all three sides have equal length <li>isosceles - if two sides have equal length <li>right-angled - if one angle is a right angle <li>scalene - all sides different lengths, no right angles <li>impossible - if the lengths can't form a triangle </ul>

 * **Returns:** type of the triangle as a string.

## `public boolean isIsosceles()`

Checks if the triangle is isosceles. Note: isosceles triangle may also be equilateral and right-angled.

 * **Returns:** true if two sides have equal length

## `public boolean isEquilateral()`

Checks if the triangle is equilateral.

 * **Returns:** true if all three sides have equal length.

## `public boolean isRightAngled()`

Checks if the triangle is right-angled. Note: right-angled triangle may also be isosceles.

 * **Returns:** true if one angle is a right angle, otherwise false.

## `public boolean isScalene()`

Checks if the triangle is scalene.

 * **Returns:** true if all sides different lengths, no right angles.

## `public boolean isImpossible()`

Checks whether the given side lengths form a valid triangle.

 * **Returns:** true if the given side lenghts do not form a triangle.

## `public static void main(String[] args)`

Usage: java Quadrangle &lt;side1:int&gt; &lt;side2:int&gt; &lt;side3:int&gt;

Main method is only used for testing purposes, no unit tests need to be written for this method.


### References
This doc was generated by https://delight-im.github.io/Javadoc-to-Markdown/ from Triangle.java.

